# 7MU009---Music-Computing
Repurposed broken lighting desk used to control a virtual step sequencer and synthesiser through the use of Arduinos. Built in Pure Data.

## Background
------
This project focuses on the participatory Do it Yourself (DiY) culture, which illustrates a certain ethos in its approach to technology and materials. Based less on commercially released technologies that are classified as finalised products and concentrated on raw materials of garbage and recycling, incomplete, broken or discarded technology. This type of practise places emphasis on building unique, custom-built technology from the components and materials, which have been re-functioned from their original objective to create new and often unexpected functions. According to Snake-Beings (2016) the ability to make something happen, is more expansive and incorporates the capacities of materials to become active participants in the production of cultural artifacts.

The re-functioning of materials and existing technology from its original purpose to a new context of usage creates what Spencer (2006) calls the Lo-Fi ethos of DiY culture.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The Do-it-yourself approach…is all about…using whatever resources are available to your…[and] not trying to seek out new technology. (Spencer, 2006, p. 187)

Greg Locke, creator of The Trons, has a similar approach to the DiY approach. The Trons are a robot garage band made from recycled materials, including flimsy materials of Meccano and aluminium. Through re-purposing discarded technologies, DiY practitioners engage in “tinkering methodologies” (Hertz and Parikka, 2012) which, define the process as an experimental, exploration of engagement between humans redundant technologies.

This information is relevant and appropriate to the project as the physical controller, that communicates user input to the software counterpart, is built from a broken and discarded lighting console. The original circuitry for the console was in a state of disrepair, however, the potentiometers and metal frame were in good working order. The goal of the project was to create an analogue style step sequencer and synthesiser controlled by a physical, tactile surface while generating all the actual audio within a software counterpart.

## Why Use a Sequencer?
------
On a step sequencer, it is common to find one or more rows of potentiometers, usually with eight or sixteen potentiometers per row. On an analogue step sequencer, for each row, there’s a voltage output. The sequencer steps along the row or rows, one potentiometer at a time. At each step, the voltage level set by a corresponding potentiometer is sent to that row’s output. The output can be patched to the CV input of an oscillator. Each time the sequencer selects a new potentiometer; the frequency of the oscillator changes, producing a new musical pitch. When the sequencer reaches the last potentiometer in the row, it returns back to the start and, if left unaltered, the pattern of selected pitches repeats again. An incoming signal tells the sequencer when it is ready to move to the next potentiometer in the row, this is called the clock, trigger or gate. This signal is usually also used to gate multiple envelope generators.

A sequencer provides a note value, how long each note should be, how long the note is and how loud or soft to play it. It offers very precise control of these parameters. A step sequencer offers the ability to create tuneful or at least coherent music in a relatively short amount of time. Compare this with the MIDI keyboard, which takes a great deal more effort and practice to achieve a similar result. The sequencer does not require an extensive skillset to be able to quite start creating music, although, the longer spent practicing on it, the better skilled a person can become at doing more complex tasks. For example, at first, the player may only select a few notes and let them run continuously for a long period of time, whereas after a few sessions of practice they will be able to control a great deal more parameters simultaneously and begin to play it like an instrument.
